{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2513
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Italic;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\deftab709
\pard\pardeftab709\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Mathematics is not Reality.\
\
Reality is reality.\
\
Mathematics is a notation.\
\
Mathematics can be used to 
\f1\i describe
\f0\i0  reality.\
\
Given two data points, both based on hard reality, mathematics can be used to \ul \ulc0 interpolate\ulnone  between the two points and 
\f1\i might
\f0\i0  point to new findings.\
\
Mathematics should not be used to \ul extrapolate\ulnone  reality.  This is equivalent to 1,000 monkeys typing on a typewriter \'96 maybe something useful will result, but probably not.\
\
Mathematics is a \ul superset\ulnone  of reality.\
\
Mathematics is a powerful notation that can describe scenarios that are not based on reality.\
\
See the first 100 pages or so of Nobel Laureate Ilya Prigogene\'92s book \'93Order Out of Chaos\'94 for a discourse on how mathematics (applied too early) actually harmed the field of Physics.\
\
Mathematics is a notation in search of a problem.\
\
Studying mathematics is the same as studying a programming language, say JavaScript.  The notation called \'93mathematics\'94 has a longer history than the notation called \'93JavaScript\'94, hence, mathematics is more rich with {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://32851900-3D62-4916-BB42-AD41DA75E3E6"}}{\fldrslt detail.}}\
\
Mathematics is a notation based on textual representation.  The notation called \'93mathematics\'94 was invented when all we had was pen and paper.  (Or, clay tablets and pointy sticks).\
\
Mathematics applied to computers limits what can be expressed to that which can be expressed in mathematics, i.e. to text.\
\
Computers have advanced beyond being text-only devices.\
\
Mathematics of computers is still under development.\
\
We are currently bogged down in trying to force-fit non-textual computers into a text-only paradigm called \'93mathematics\'94. \
\
The flat, text-only, notation called \'93mathematics\'94 can describe graphical items.  The opposite is not true (yet).  We need a notation that uses overlapping, atomic, graphical entities.\
\
Mathematics emphasizes brevity \'96 e.g. using single symbols, incl. Greek \'96 instead of obviousness & clarity.  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://5E8B5E41-352C-4EB1-A8B0-BC788AD8FF49"}}{\fldrslt Again,}} two syntaxes would help \'96 one for writability (single symbols), one for readability (long -hand symbols). \
\
}