{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2513
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Bold;\f2\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\sl264\slmult1\sb260\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 <$ScrKeepWithNext><$Scr_H::1><$Scr_Ps::0>
\f1\b\fs36 Everything Is An Interpreter\
\pard\pardeftab709\sl276\slmult1\sa140\partightenfactor0

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 <!$Scr_H::1><!$Scr_Ps::0>
\f2 \
\pard\pardeftab709\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Every piece of code that we write is an interpreter.\
\
Compiled languages are always interpreted.  In the case of compiled languages, there are two interpreters \'96 one that runs at \'93compile time\'94 and another that runs at \'93run time\'94.  The compile-time interpreter is an app that pre-calculates some aspects of the program.  The pre-calculated result is fed to another interpreter which runs the program to completion.  It is assumed that the compile-time interpreter (\'93the compiler\'94) runs fewer times than the final app + runtime-interpreter.\
\
The line between compile-time interpretation and run-time interpretation can be thought of as a slider control.  We arbitrarily set that slider to a fixed value and CS education tries to teach us how to make the best trade-offs so that the app+runtime-interpreter run as efficiently as possible.  The term \'93efficiency\'94 has many meanings \'96 the main ones being speed and memory usage.  Lately, we (the royal we) have been loading \'93type safety\'94 into compile-time interpreters.  Type checkers are interpreters that run during the phase called compile-time.\
\
Typically, runtime interpretation is done by a hard-wired interpreter called the CPU.  Compile-time interpreters reduce apps to something called assembly language.  CPUs interpret assembly {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://C6F99FA4-C6E4-4C50-953B-3859E13CA0CF"}}{\fldrslt language,}}}