{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2513
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs26 \cf0 No-Code can only work for problems we have already beaten down (3 times, see Mythical Man-Month), e.g. accounting packages and websites.\
\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://A8D1089F-09AC-4F86-80FF-DFBBEA2D2E98"}}{\fldrslt CASE}} "died" because it could only handle problems that were beaten down at the time, e.g. accounting packages.\
\
No-Code will also "die" because it can only add websites to the mix of already-beaten-down problems.\
\
No-Code cannot handle "new problems".  Historically, programming has attacked "new problems".  That's why software is hard to estimate - software attacks the kinds of problems that have never been solved before.\
\
Handling "new problems" was done by creating HLLs which spit out assembler.  Assembler programmers hated HLLs.  Then they retired.\
\
The way forward is: assume that ALL current programming languages are assemblers, and create new-breed HLLs that emit such assemblers.  "Good" assembler languages are ones that are easy to emit, e.g. languages that do not require declaration-before-use, that do not have strong-typing, that provide 1st class functions, that provide anonymous functions.  E.g. Lisp and JavaScript.\
\
The "new and unexplored" domains are concurrency (concurrency is not parallelism - see Rob Pike's talk), {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://C5FE9D89-E69D-4A63-B34F-EBB189DD2EDF"}}{\fldrslt isolation,}} diagrammatic syntax.  Diagrams that compile to code, not the other way around (like plantUML, GraphViz, etc.).  I call this DaS (Diagrams as Syntax).\
\
[Aside: I know that concurrency, isolation and diagrammatic syntax are possible, since I've built big (production, not toy) systems like this.  I am willing to share this knowledge.].\
\
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://44B719ED-259F-47D5-B13B-071E6AEA6911"}}{\fldrslt \cf0 FBP}} is about concurrency.  EVERY component is concurrent.\
\
HTML webworkers are about concurrency.\
\
New-breed HLLs will riff on these ideas: concurrency, isolation, DaS.\
\
}