{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2513
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Italic;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\deftab709
\pard\pardeftab709\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 The first layer of a DSL is the 
\f1\i scanner.
\f0\i0   It reads input data, e.g. characters, and converts the data into 
\f1\i tokens
\f0\i0 .  A 
\f1\i token
\f0\i0  might contain file and position information.  \
\
The scanner might compress runs of similar characters into single tokens.  For example a run of whitespace \'96 spaces, tabs, etc. - might be compressed into a single 
\f1\i whitespace
\f0\i0  
\f1\i token
\f0\i0 .  These are semantically uninteresting, but 
\f1\i whitespace tokens
\f0\i0  can act as delimiters between other tokens.\
\
More importantly, the scanner compresses semantically interesting runs of related characters.  For example, an identifier, 
\f1\i id
\f0\i0 , in a language is usually composed of a single alpha character followed by 0 or more alphanumeric characters.  The scanner groups such identifier characters together and assigns a single token (e.g. a token code plus a string hashcode) to such runs.  Compressing such runs of characters into single tokens relieves subsequent passes from having to re-scan the input character by {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://081294F6-D80C-45DA-A2B1-92C27E6E1184"}}{\fldrslt character.}} The scanner also worries about the low-level details of {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://65665512-EDB1-47EF-A18D-827E4B2063ED"}}{\fldrslt delimiter}} characters. In languages where indentation is significant (e.g. Python), the scanner might keep track of indentation levels and attach these to 
\f1\i tokens
\f0\i0  or, might create special indentation 
\f1\i tokens
\f0\i0 .\
Scanners are, fundamentally, pattern matchers.\
\
Scanners often use REGEX libraries to specify string matching.  \
\
A tool that build scanners from declarative specifications is LEX.\
\
PEG technology obsoletes the use of LEX.  See below.}