---
layout: post
title:  "PFR and PF (Parsing Find and Replace)"
---
# Overview
<u>PFR</u> is a command-line find-and-replace utility that uses PEG parsing instead of REGEXP.  <u>PFR</u> outputs the resulting (modified input) file to stdout.

<u>PF</u> is a command-line find utility that uses PEG parsing instead of REGEXP (like GREP, except with parsing). <u>PF</u> merely prints the names of the matching files on stdout.

# Usage
```
pfr source-filename grammar-filename action-filename
pf source-filename grammar-filename
```

The 3 files contain text.  

*Source-filename* refers to a file which contains arbitrary text which is to-be-parsed.

*Grammar-filename* refers to a file which contains a grammar specification in *Ohm-JS* format.

*Action-filename* refers to a file which contains an action specification in *Glue* format.

# Code

[github](https://github.com/guitarvydas/parse)

PFR and PF are shell scripts (Bash) contained in that directory.  Put them on your PATH.

# Workflow

[*This section doesn't belong in the final PFR/PF man page, but the tools are young...*]

A workflow that works best for me is:

1. Use the [Ohm-Editor](https://ohmlang.github.io/editor/) to build and debug the grammar

2. Write a "vanilla" action spec that simply outputs what is input ("identity") ; note that if you use *syntactic rules* instead of *lexical rules* in the grammar, the output will omit spacing (that's OK, you just need to be aware of this ; the only way to get a pure identity grammar is to use syntactic rules only (not necessary))

3. Modify the *identity* action spec to suit your needs.

# Appendix - Ohm-JS Format

See [Ohm-JS Syntax](https://github.com/harc/ohm/blob/master/doc/syntax-reference.md).

# Appendix - Glue Format

See [Glue Manual](https://guitarvydas.github.io/2021/03/24/Glue-Manual.html).

See [Glue Overview](https://guitarvydas.github.io/2021/04/11/Glue-Tool.html).

# Appendix - Sample Grammars and Actions

[ABC Glue](https://guitarvydas.github.io/2021/09/15/ABC-Glue.html) (uses the `ftranpile()` function - a precursor to `PFR` - with a simple`.ohm` file and a simple `.glue` file (action spec))

[first class comments](https://github.com/guitarvydas/firstclasscomments) (this project was a quickie - one weekend - entry in the language jam ; the current versions of `sequence.js` and `details.js` contain the pre-cursor of `PFR` ; each of these contains references to multiple `.ohm` files and to multiple `.glue` files (action specs))



A sample (very simple) grammar specification from ABC Glue:

```
ABCgrok {
TopLevel = Assignment+

  Assignment =   Variable "=" Expression -- complex
               | Variable "=" number -- simple
  Expression = Variable "+" Variable

    Variable = "a" .. "z"
    number = dig+
    dig = "0" .. "9"
}
```

In this example, there are 7 grammar rules

- `TopLevel` is one-or-more Assignments
- `Assignment_complex` is a `Variable`, `=`and an `Expression`
- `Assignment_simple` is a `Variable`, `=`and a `number`
- A `Variable` is a single lower case letter, from`a` through `z`
- A `number` is one-or-more `dig`s
- A `dig` is a single character `0` through `9`

A sample action specification (aka Glue):

```
TopLevel [@assignments] = [[${console.log (assignments)}]]
Assignment_complex [v keq e] = [[var ${v} = ${e};\n]]
Assignment_simple [v keq n] = [[var ${v} = ${n};\n]]
Expression [v1 kplus v2] = [[${v1} + ${v2}]]
Variable [c] = [[${c}]]
number [@digits] = [[${digits}]]
dig [c] = [[${c}]]
```

One Action rule for each grammar rule.  

The Action rules must have the same name as the grammar rules.

Each rule creates and returns one string (the string might be empty).

- `TopLevel` accepts an `iterator` node called `assignments`, then calls `console.log()` to print out the assignments.
- `Assignment_complex` takes three parameters `v`, `keq`and `e` which represent the sub-matches in the Assignment_complex grammar rule, then returns the string `var ${v} = ${e};` followed by a newline ; ${v} is expanded to be the text of the `var` parameter, ${e} is expanded to be the text of the `e` parameter, the parameter called `keq` is ignored) 
- `Assignment_simple `takes three parameters `v`, `keq`and `n` and returns the string `var ${v} = ${n}` followed by a newline, the parameter `keq` is ignored
- `Variable` takes three parameters `v1`, `kplus` and `v2` and returns a plus statement (ignoring the parameter `kplus`)
- `number` takes an iteration node containing all of the `dig`s and returns a string containing the digits (the iteration node is collapsed automatically to make a single string)
- `dig` takes one parameter `c` and returns a string of length 1 containing the character.

# Future

These commands should deal with *stdin*, *stdout* and *stderr* in the usual UNIX® style.  Instead, these commands currently require filenames on the command line.

# See Also

[Blog](https://guitarvydas.github.io)
[Table of Contents as of Sept 23, 2021](https://guitarvydas.github.io/2021/09/21/Table-of-Contents-Sept-17-2021.html)
[Videos](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC2bdO9l84VWGlRdeNy5)
[References](https://guitarvydas.github.io/2021/01/14/References.html)

<script src="https://utteranc.es/client.js" 
        repo="guitarvydas/guitarvydas.github.io" 
        issue-term="pathname" 
        theme="github-light" 
        crossorigin="anonymous" 
        async> 
</script> 
