{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2513
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Roman;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Italic;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs26 \cf0 A controller is "something new" that hadn't been anticipated during the initial design of computers.\
\
A controller is not a calculator\
\
A controller is a coordinator of many actions.\
\
Imagine the human body.  The body's autonomous system has hundreds of independent parts.  \
\
The body has one main coordinator - consciousness.  The conscious mind sets the goals for a body, but does not micro-manage.\
\
For example, waking through a door.  The conscious mind sets up the intention, and the rest of the autonomous system carries out the intention.\
\
If the door is closed, the hand-arm unit swings forward, grabs the doorknob and turns it, then the hand-arm unit pulls the door to open it, then the hand-arm unit lets go of the doorknob.  [
\f1\i Obviously, the actions are different if a door swings outward.
\f0\i0 ]\
\
Then, the body starts free-falling through the open door.  The leg units snap into action and stop the body from falling down to the floor.  One leg unit swings forward and plants its foot on the ground a few feet ahead of the body.  The body, again, falls forward using the planted leg to hold it up.  The other leg unit swings forward and plants itself just ahead of the new position of the body.  This set of actions repeats many times.\
\
This set of actions is so common that we have given it a name: "walking".  The conscious mind doesn't micro-manage the operations of the body and the leg units, it just "happens".  Actually, the leg units use H.I. (human intelligence) to control each part of the leg units.  The H.I. was "trained" to learn its operations during the first year of the body's existence.\
\
When the conscious mind does interfere with the operation of the autonomous nervous system, bad things usually happen.  Golfers have names for this kind of interference - "analysis paralysis" and "bad shot".\
\
Using calculator techniques to program a parallel computer results in problems, much like micro-managing the body's autonomous system.}