{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2513
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Roman;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Palatino-Italic;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}}
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\li720\fi-720\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs26 \cf0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}the system makes no guarantees about the data in an event (other than it, or a pointer to it, can be contained in the data field of an event)\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}data is designed in a hierarchical manner - the 
\f1\i Send()
\f0\i0 er and the receiver must agree on the shape of the data\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}the system knows only that an event contains a pin tag and a data field\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}input pin tags refer to the input port names of a receiving component\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}output pin tags refer to the output port name of the 
\f1\i Send()
\f0\i0 ing component\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}the 
\f1\i dispatcher()
\f0\i0  maps output pin tags to input pin tags\
\pard\tx560\tx1080\tx1440\tx1800\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl264\slmult1\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
Example: UNIX\'ae pipelines.  Events in a pipeline are lines of characters terminated by '\\n' (0x0a).  End of file is 0x04.  No other structuring is implied.  Some programs, e.g. 
\f1\i awk
\f0\i0 , assume and create 
\f1\i fields
\f0\i0  within the lines of characters.  UNIX\'ae does not control this interpretation of the data, it simply delivers events as whole lines (or as EOF).\
\
Example: network protocols, e.g. OSI 7-layer.  Each layer treats packets of bytes.  The bottom-most layers key on certain bytes at the beginning and end of packets, but don't impose further structure on the contents of the packets.\
\
Example: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "scrivcmt://B3500C99-28D9-454E-B4EC-1FFBCA6E9005"}}{\fldrslt FBP}} sends IPs through the system.  The FBP system recognizes bracketed IPs, but imposes no further structure on the data contained in the IPs.\
}